## Steps
#### Step 1: Deployment
Here we need to
- Plan the deployment and monitoring and maintenance
- We need to produce a final report and review the project.
- In this phase
	- We deploy the results of the analysis
	- This is also known as reiewing the project

#### Step 2: Business Understanding
- **Business Understanding**:
	- The very first consist of business understanding.
	- Whenever any requirement occurs, firstly we need to determine the business objective.
	- Assess the situation
	- determine the data mining goals and then
	- prodice the project plan as per the requirement

#### Step3: Data Exploration
The second step consist of data understanding.
- For the further process, we need to gather initial data, describe and explore the data and verify data quality to ensure it contains the data we require.
- Data collected from the various sources is describes in terms of its aplication and the need for the project in this phase.
- Ths is also knows as the data exploration.
This is necessary to verify the quality of data collected.

#### Step 4: Data preparation
From the data collected in the last step
- We need to select the data as per the need, clean it, construct it to get useful information and
- then integrate it all
- Finally we need to format the data to get the appropriate data.
- Data is selected, cleaned and integrate into the format finalized for the analysis in this phase

#### Step 5: Data Modelling
- We need to
	- Select a modelling technique, generate test design, build a model and assess the model build
- The data model is build to
	- Analyze relationships between various selected objects in the data.
	- test cases are build for assessing the model and model is tested and omplemented on the data in this phase
- Where proccessing is hosted?
	- Distrubuted servers/cloud (awz ec2)

- Where is data stored?
	- Distributed storeage (amazon s3)

- How data is stored and indexed?
	- High performance schema free databases

- What operation are performed on data
	- Analytic / semantic

