## Common language runtime

- CTS is a rich type system built inbto the CLR implemets various types (int, double etc) and operates on those types
- CLS is a set of specifications that language and library designers need to follow. This will ensure interoperability between languages.

## Managed code execution process

Source code     -->     MSIL code     -->     Executable code     -->     CPU     --> Output
(any language writted
code of .net framework )

## JIT types
- **Pre JIT compiler**: Compiles entire code into native code completely
- **Econo Jit Compiler**: Compiles code part by part freeing when required
- **Normal JIT compiler**: Compiles only that part of code when called and places in cache.

## Dotnet framework class library (FCL)
This is also called as Base class library and is is common for all tyoes of applications i.e. the way

- System
- System.Data
- System.Web
- System.Windows.Forms
- System.EnterpriseServices
- System.XML

## Assemblies
When you compile an application, the MSIL code creates is stored in an assembly. These include both executable application files that you can run directky from windows without the need for any other programs and libraries for use by other applications.
In addition to containg MSIL, assemblies also include meta inforamtion and optional resources.

## Garbage Collection (GC)
One of the most important features of managed code is the concept of garbage collection. This is the dotnet method of making sure that the memory used by an application is freed up completely when the application is no longer in use.
It works by inspecting the menory of your computer every so often and removing anything form it that is no longer needed. There is no set time frome for this, it might happen thousands of times a second, once every fer seconds,or whenever you want it to happen.

## .net framework design principle
- Interoperability
- Portability
- Security
- Memory management
- Simplified deployment

## Types of dotnet framework
- **DOTNET framework**: This is the general version
- **DOTNET mono framework**: Used to unix like os
- **DETNET compact framework**: Used for others such as mobiles


## Question for self work 1
- Discuss the architecture of dotnet framework.